.TH IMAGEX 1 "May 2012" "imagex (wimlib 0.6.3)" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
imagex \- Create, modify, extract, mount, or unmount a WIM (Windows Imaging Format) archive
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBimagex append\fR \fIarguments...\fR
.br
\fBimagex apply\fR \fIarguments...\fR
.br
\fBimagex capture\fR \fIarguments...\fR
.br
\fBimagex delete\fR \fIarguments...\fR
.br
\fBimagex dir\fR \fIarguments...\fR
.br
\fBimagex export\fR \fIarguments...\fR
.br
\fBimagex info\fR \fIarguments...\fR
.br
\fBimagex mount\fR \fIarguments...\fR
.br
\fBimagex mountrw\fR \fIarguments...\fR
.br
\fBimagex unmount\fR \fIarguments...\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBimagex\fR is able to deal with archives in the Windows Imaging Format (.wim
files). Its interface is meant to be similar to Microsoft's imagex.exe program.

To do its work, \fBimagex\fR uses \fBwimlib\fR, a library which provides
interfaces for manipulating WIM archives.  You could wimlib in your own programs
if you wanted to.  Wimlib's public interface is documented.

See \fBWARNING\fR.

.SH COMMANDS

There is a separate manual page for each \fBimagex\fR command.

.SH SUPPORTED FEATURES

The following features are currently supported:

.IP \[bu] 2
Mount an image in a WIM read-only (\fBimagex mount\fR)
.IP \[bu] 2
Mount an image in a WIM read-write (\fBimagex mountrw\fR)
.IP \[bu] 2
LZX decompression and compression
.IP \[bu] 2
XPRESS decompression and compression
.IP \[bu] 2
Integrity table
.IP \[bu] 2
XML data (parsed and written using \fBlibxml\fR(3))
.IP \[bu] 2
Create a WIM from a directory (\fBimagex capture\fR)
.IP \[bu] 2
Append a directory onto a WIM as a new image (\fBimagex append\fR)
.IP \[bu] 2
Delete image(s) from a WIM (\fBimagex delete\fR)
.IP \[bu] 2
Export image(s) from a WIM (\fBimagex export\fR)
.IP \[bu] 2
Display information about a WIM file (\fBimagex info\fR, \fBimagex dir\fR)
.IP \[bu] 2
Change the name or description of an image in the WIM (\fBimagex info\fR)
.IP \[bu] 2
Change which image in a WIM is bootable (\fBimagex info\fR)

.SH UNSUPPORTED FEATURES
The following features are currently unsupported:
.IP \[bu] 2
File permissions and security descriptors are ignored.  The information
contained in them in an existing WIM will be lost when wimlib writes a WIM file.
This does not seem to matter for Windows PE, but this means that you should not
use this program to image a drive containing Windows Vista/7/8 and expect it to
be applied with the correct file permissions.
.IP \[bu] 2
Split WIMs.  These can be used to split up a WIM to fit on multiple CDs, if you
can't use a DVD for some reason.
.IP \[bu] 2
The \fB--verify\fR option, for all commands that use it.  Without this option,
there theoretically could be a SHA1 hash collision between two files, although
it's very unlikely.
.IP \[bu] 2
The \fB--config\fR option, for all commands that use it. 
.IP \[bu] 2
Alternate stream entries
.IP \[bu] 2
Different versions of the WIM file format (if different versions even exist)

Also see the Doxygen documentation for Wimlib.

.SH DIFFERENCES FROM MICROSOFT IMAGEX

See \fBUNSUPPORTED FEATURES\fR.

The \fB/scroll\fR and \fB/log\fR switches from Microsoft's version imagex are
not planned to be implemented.  Note that to scroll the output in the UNIX shell
you can just pipe the output into \fBless\fR(1).

Some features, such as the ability to keep files hard-linked when they are
extracted from a WIM, are not available in Microsoft's version of imagex.

See the documentation for each command; in some cases they do not do exactly the
same thing as imagex.exe.

Obviously, this version of imagex is free software but Microsoft's version is
not.

.SH WARNING

Note: \fBwimlib\fR and \fBimagex\fR are experimental.  Use Microsoft's
imagex.exe if you have to make sure your WIM files are made correctly.  Not all
features listed under \fBSUPPORTED FEATURES\fR have been thoroughly tested.
Feel free to submit a bug report if you find a bug.

Some parts of the WIM file format are poorly documented or even completely
undocumented, so these parts had to be reverse engineered for compatibility
purposes.

.SH REPORTING BUGS

Report bugs to ebiggers3@gmail.com.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR imagex-append (1),
.BR imagex-apply (1),
.BR imagex-capture (1),
.BR imagex-delete (1),
.BR imagex-dir (1),
.BR imagex-export (1),
.BR imagex-info (1),
.BR imagex-mount (1),
.BR imagex-mountrw (1),
.BR imagex-unmount (1),

