.TH IMAGEX "1" "April 2012" "imagex (wimlib) wimlib 0.6.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
imagex capture \- Create a new WIM file from a directory.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBimagex capture\fR \fIDIRECTORY\fR \fIWIMFILE\fR [\fIIMAGE_NAME\fR] \
[\fIDESCRIPTION\fR] [\fIOPTION\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP

Captures a WIM image from \fIDIRECTORY\fR and creates a new WIM archive,
\fIWIMFILE\fR, that contains it.  \fIDIRECTORY\fR becomes the root directory of
the image.

\fIIMAGE_NAME\fR and \fIDESCRIPTION\fR specify the name and description of the
new image.  If \fIIMAGE_NAME\fR is not given, it is taken to be the same as the
base name of \fIDIRECTORY\fR.  If \fIDESCRIPTION\fR is not given, the
description is taken to be empty.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 6
\fB--boot\fR
Specifies that the new image is to be made the bootable image of the WIM archive.
.TP
\fB--check\fR
Include an integrity table in the new WIM file.
.TP
\fB--compress\fR[=\fITYPE\fR]
Specifies the compression type for the WIM file.  \fITYPE\fR may be "none",
"maximum", or "fast".  By default, the compression type is "none".  If \fB--compress\fR
is specified but \fITYPE\fR is not, the compression type is taken to be
"maximum", which is LZX compression.  "fast" compression is XPRESS compression.
.TP
\fB--config\fR \fICONFIG_FILE\fR
This option is currently unsupported.
.TP
\fB--flags\fR \fIEDITIONID\fR
Specify a string to use in the <FLAGS> element of the XML data for the image.
.TP
\fB--norpfix
This option is currently unsupported.
.TP
\fB--verify\fR
This option is currently unsupported.
.TP
\fB--verbose\fR
Print the names of files and directories as they are captured.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR imagex (1)

