.TH IMAGEX "1" "May 2012" "imagex (wimlib) wimlib 0.6.3" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
imagex apply \- Extract one image, or all images, from a WIM archive

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBimagex apply\fR \fIWIMFILE\fR [\fIIMAGE_NUM\fR | \fIIMAGE_NAME\fR | all] \
\fIDIRECTORY\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP

\fBimagex apply\fR extracts the specified image from \fIWIMFILE\fR to
\fIDIRECTORY\fR.

The image to extract may be specified by \fIIMAGE_NUM\fR, which must be an
integer that is an index of an image in the WIM file, starting at 1.
Alternatively, it may be the name of an image in the WIM file.  It also may be
the keyword \fBall\fR, which indicates that all images in the WIM are to be
extracted. If the keyword \fBall\fR is given, the images are extracted into
subdirectories of \fIDIRECTORY\fR that will be named after the image names.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 6
\fB--check\fR
When reading \fIWIMFILE\fR, verify its integrity if the integrity table is
present.
.TP
\fB--hardlink\fR
When extracting a file from the WIM that is identical to a file that is already
extracted, create a hard link using \fBlink\fR (3) rather than creating a
separate file.  Files of this type are already hard linked together inside the
WIM to save space.
.TP
\fB--symlink\fR
When extracting a file from the WIM that is identical to a file that is already
extracted, create a symbolic link using \fBsymlink\fR (3) rather than creating a
separate file.  Files of this type are already hard linked together inside the
WIM to save space.
.TP
\fB--verbose\fR
Print the path to of each file or directory within the WIM image as it is extracted.
.TP
\fB--verify\fR
This option is currently unsupported.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR imagex (1)

