.TH WIMDIR "1" "February 2024" "wimlib 1.14.4" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
wimdir \- List the files contained in a WIM image
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBwimdir\fR \fIWIMFILE\fR [\fIIMAGE\fR] [\fIOPTION\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBwimdir\fR, or equivalently \fBwimlib-imagex dir\fR, lists the files and
directories contained in the specified image of the Windows Imaging (WIM)
archive \fIWIMFILE\fR.
.PP
\fIIMAGE\fR specifies the image in \fIWIMFILE\fR to list.  It may be the 1-based
index of an image, the name of an image, or the keyword "all" to specify all
images.  It may be omitted if \fBWIMFILE\fR contains only one image.  You can
use \fBwiminfo\fR(1) to list the images contained in \fIWIMFILE\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 6
\fB--path\fR=\fIPATH\fR
List the files under \fIPATH\fR instead of under the root directory.
.TP
\fB--detailed\fR
List detailed information about each file.
.TP
\fB--one-file-only\fR
List information about the specified file only.  Intended for use with both
\fB--path\fR and \fB--detailed\fR.
.TP
\fB--ref\fR="\fIGLOB\fR"
File glob of additional WIMs or split WIM parts to reference resources from.
This option can be specified multiple times.  This option is only useful when
\fB--detailed\fR is also specified.
.SH NOTES
\fBwimdir\fR supports split WIMs, but it only works on the first part of the
split WIM.
.PP
Detailed metadata such as timestamps and data streams is not shown unless the
\fB--detailed\fR option is used.
.SH EXAMPLES
List all files and directories in the first image of 'boot.wim':
.RS
.PP
wimdir boot.wim 1
.RE
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wimlib-imagex (1)
.BR wiminfo (1)
