.TH WIMEXPORT "1" "February 2024" "wimlib 1.14.4" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
wimexport \- Export image(s) from a WIM archive
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBwimexport\fR \fISRC_WIMFILE\fR \fISRC_IMAGE\fR \fIDEST_WIMFILE\fR
 [\fIDEST_IMAGE_NAME\fR [\fIDEST_IMAGE_DESC\fR]] [\fIOPTION\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBwimexport\fR, or equivalently \fBwimlib-imagex export\fR, exports the
specified image from \fISRC_WIMFILE\fR into \fIDEST_WIMFILE\fR, optionally
changing the image's name and/or description.  If \fIDEST_WIMFILE\fR already
exists, the image will be appended to it; otherwise, a new WIM archive will be
created to contain the exported image.
.PP
\fISRC_IMAGE\fR specifies the image in \fISRC_WIMFILE\fR to export.  It may be
the 1-based index of an image, the name of an image, or the keyword "all" to
specify all images.  You can use \fBwiminfo\fR(1) to list the images contained
in \fISRC_WIMFILE\fR.
.PP
If specified, \fIDEST_IMAGE_NAME\fR is the name to give the image being
exported.  The default is its name in \fISRC_WIMFILE\fR.  If specified,
\fIDEST_IMAGE_NAME\fR must be either a name not already used in
\fIDEST_WIMFILE\fR, or the empty string to leave the image unnamed.
\fIDEST_IMAGE_NAME\fR cannot be specified if "all" images are being exported.
.PP
If specified, \fIDEST_IMAGE_DESC\fR is the description to give the image being
exported.  The default is its description in \fISRC_WIMFILE\fR.
.PP
\fBwimexport\fR supports exporting images from stand-alone WIMs as well as from
split WIMs and delta WIMs.  See \fBSPLIT WIMS\fR.
.PP
\fBwimexport\fR also supports exporting images from a non-pipable WIM into a
pipable WIM or vice versa, or from a non-solid WIM into a solid WIM or vice
versa.  It can also export a pipable WIM directly to standard output if
\fIDEST_WIMFILE\fR is specified as "-"; see \fB--pipable\fR.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 6
\fB--boot\fR
Mark the exported image as the "bootable" image of the WIM; or, if multiple
images are being exported, make the image that was the bootable image of the
source WIM also the bootable image of the destination WIM.
.TP
\fB--check\fR
Before exporting the image(s), verify the integrity of the source WIM,
destination WIM, and any referenced WIMs whenever they have extra integrity
information present.  Also include extra integrity information in the
destination WIM, even if it was not present before.
.TP
\fB--nocheck\fR
Do not include extra integrity information in the destination WIM, even if it
was present before.
.TP
\fB--include-integrity\fR
Include extra integrity information in the destination WIM, i.e. like
\fB--check\fR but don't do any verification beforehand.
.TP
\fB--compress\fR=\fITYPE\fR[:\fILEVEL\fR]
Specify the compression type, and optionally the compression level for that
compression type, for \fIDEST_WIMFILE\fR.  Note that if \fIDEST_WIMFILE\fR
already exists, then its compression type cannot be changed by this option.  See
the documentation for this option to \fBwimcapture\fR(1) for more details.
.TP
\fB--chunk-size\fR=\fISIZE\fR
Set the WIM compression chunk size to \fISIZE\fR.  See the documentation for
this option to \fBwimcapture\fR(1) for more details.
.TP
\fB--recompress\fR
Force all exported data to be recompressed, even if the destination WIM will use
the same compression type as the source WIM.
.TP
\fB--solid\fR
Create a "solid" archive that compresses multiple files together.  This usually
results in a significantly better compression ratio but has disadvantages such
as reduced compatibility.  See the documentation for this option to
\fBwimcapture\fR(1) for more details.
.TP
\fB--solid-compress\fR=\fITYPE\fR[:\fILEVEL\fR]
Like \fB--compress\fR, but set the compression type used in solid resources.
See the documentation for this option to \fBwimcapture\fR(1) for more details.
.TP
\fB--solid-chunk-size\fR=\fISIZE\fR
Like \fB--chunk-size\fR, but set the chunk size used in solid resources.  See
the documentation for this option to \fBwimcapture\fR(1) for more details.
.TP
\fB--threads\fR=\fINUM_THREADS\fR
Number of threads to use for compressing data.  Default: autodetect (number of
processors).
.TP
\fB--rebuild\fR
If exporting to an existing WIM, rebuild it rather than appending to it.
Rebuilding is slower but will save some space that would otherwise be left as a
hole in the WIM.  Also see \fBwimoptimize\fR(1).
.TP
\fB--ref\fR="\fIGLOB\fR"
File glob of additional WIMs or split WIM parts to reference resources from.
See \fBSPLIT_WIMS\fR.  This option can be specified multiple times.  Note:
\fIGLOB\fR is listed in quotes because it is interpreted by \fBwimexport\fR and
may need to be quoted to protect against shell expansion.
.TP
\fB--pipable\fR
Build or rebuild \fIDEST_WIMFILE\fR as a "pipable WIM" that can be applied fully
sequentially, including from a pipe.  See \fBwimcapture\fR(1) for more details
about creating pipable WIMs.  The default without this option is to make
\fIDEST_WIMFILE\fR pipable only if it was "-" (standard output) or was an
existing pipable WIM.
.TP
\fB--not-pipable\fR
Rebuild \fIDEST_WIMFILE\fR as a normal, non-pipable WIM.  This only useful if
you are exporting image(s) to a pipable WIM but you want it rebuilt as
non-pipable.
.TP
\fB--wimboot\fR
Mark the destination image as WIMBoot-compatible.  Also, if exporting to a new
archive, set the compression type to that recommended for WIMBoot (currently,
XPRESS with 4096 byte chunks).
.TP
\fB--unsafe-compact\fR
Compact the existing destination WIM in-place and append any new data,
eliminating "holes".  This is efficient, but in general this option should
\fInot\fR be used because a failed or interrupted compaction will corrupt the
WIM archive.  For more information, see the documentation for this option to
\fBwimoptimize\fR(1).
.SH SPLIT WIMS
You may use \fBwimexport\fR to export images from (but not to) a split WIM.  The
\fISRC_WIMFILE\fR argument must specify the first part of the split WIM, while
the additional parts of the split WIM must be specified in one or more
\fB--ref\fR="\fIGLOB\fR" options.  Since globbing is built into the \fB--ref\fR
option, typically only one \fB--ref\fR option is necessary.  For example, the
names for the split WIM parts usually go something like:
.PP
.RS
.nf
mywim.swm
mywim2.swm
mywim3.swm
mywim4.swm
mywim5.swm
.RE
.PP
To export the first image of this split WIM to a new or existing WIM file
"other.wim", run:
.PP
.RS
wimexport mywim.swm 1 other.wim --ref="mywim*.swm"
.RE
.SH NOTES
\fIData consistency\fR: Except when using \fB--unsafe-compact\fR, it is safe to
abort a \fBwimexport\fR command partway through.  However, after doing this, it
is recommended to run \fBwimoptimize\fR on the destination WIM to remove any
data that was appended to the physical WIM file but not yet incorporated into
the structure of the WIM, unless the WIM was being rebuilt (e.g. with
\fB--rebuild\fR), in which case you should delete the temporary file left over.
.PP
\fIData deduplication\fR: The WIM format has built-in deduplication (also called
"single instancing") of file contents.  Therefore, when an image is exported,
only the file contents not already present in the destination WIM will be
physically copied.  However, a new copy of the image's metadata resource, which
describes the image's directory structure, will always be created.
.PP
\fIESD files\fR: \fBwimexport\fR supports solid-compressed WIMs, or "ESD" (.esd)
files, except for encrypted ESDs, which must be decrypted first.  The source and
destination files of \fBwimexport\fR can be solid WIMs, non-solid WIMs, or a
combination thereof.  If the destination file does not exist, then by default it
will be created as solid if the source was solid, or as non-solid if the source
was non-solid.  To override this, either specify \fB--solid\fR to create a solid
WIM (.esd file), or specify \fB--compress\fR=\fILZX\fR to create a standard
non-solid WIM (.wim file).
.SH EXAMPLES
Export the second image of 'boot.wim' to the new WIM file 'new.wim':
.RS
.PP
wimexport boot.wim 2 new.wim
.RE
.PP
The above example creates "new.wim" with the same compression type as
"boot.wim".  If you wish to change the compression type, specify
\fB--compress\fR=\fITYPE\fR; for example:
.RS
.PP
wimexport boot.wim 2 new.wim --compress=LZX
.RE
.PP
Export "ESD to WIM" --- that is, solid WIM to non-solid WIM:
.RS
.PP
wimexport install.esd all install.wim --compress=LZX
.RE
.PP
Export "WIM to ESD" --- that is, non-solid WIM to solid WIM:
.RS
.PP
wimexport install.wim all install.esd --solid
.RE
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wimlib-imagex (1)
.BR wiminfo (1)
.BR wimoptimize (1)
