.TH WIMINFO "1" "February 2024" "wimlib 1.14.4" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
wiminfo \- Display or change information about a WIM file or image
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBwiminfo\fR \fIWIMFILE\fR [\fIIMAGE\fR [\fINEW_NAME\fR [\fINEW_DESC\fR]]] [\fIOPTION\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBwiminfo\fR, or equivalently \fBwimlib-imagex info\fR, displays information
about \fIWIMFILE\fR or the specified \fIIMAGE\fR in it, and optionally changes
properties of \fIIMAGE\fR such as its name and description, or changes the
bootable image of the WIM.
.PP
If neither an image nor any flags other than \fB--check\fR are specified, then
basic information about the WIM and the images contained in it is shown.  If an
image is specified by \fIIMAGE\fR (as a 1-based image index or an image name),
then the information is restricted to that concerning the specified image.
.PP
Changes to the WIM are made if \fINEW_NAME\fR and/or \fB--boot\fR and/or
\fB--image-property\fR are specified.  \fINEW_NAME\fR is taken to be the new
name of the image specified by \fIIMAGE\fR while \fINEW_DESC\fR is taken to be
its new description.  If \fINEW_DESC\fR is not specified, then the image's
description is not changed.
.PP
\fBwiminfo\fR does not support modifying a split WIM, although you may display
information about one, including any of its parts.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 6
\fB--boot\fR
Mark the specified \fIIMAGE\fR as the "bootable" image of the WIM.  The
"bootable" image is the image which the Windows bootloader will use when loading
Windows PE from the WIM.
.TP
\fB--check\fR
Verify the integrity of WIM if it contains extra integrity information.  In
addition, if modifying the WIM, add extra integrity information if it was not
present before.
.TP
\fB--nocheck\fR
If modifying the WIM, remove its extra integrity information, if it had any.
.TP
\fB--include-integrity\fR
If modifying the WIM, add extra integrity information if it was not present
before, i.e. like \fB--check\fR but don't also do the verification beforehand.
.TP
\fB--image-property\fR \fINAME\fR=\fIVALUE\fR
Assign an arbitrary property to the specified \fIIMAGE\fR in the XML document of
the WIM.  \fINAME\fR is an element path such as "WINDOWS/VERSION/MAJOR", and
\fIVALUE\fR is the string to place in the element, such as "10".  See the
documentation for this option to \fBwimcapture\fR(1) for more details.  This
option may be specified multiple times.
.TP
\fB--header\fR
Show detailed information from the WIM header.
.TP
\fB--blobs\fR
List all the "blobs" (unique file data) in the WIM.
.TP
\fB--extract-xml\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Extract the WIM's raw XML document to \fIFILE\fR.
.TP
\fB--xml\fR
.br
Extract the WIM's raw XML document to standard output.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wimlib-imagex (1)
.BR wimdir (1)
