.TH WIMLIB-IMAGEX "1" "March 2016" "wimlib 1.9.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
wimlib-imagex-split \- Split a WIM into multiple parts
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBwimlib-imagex split\fR \fIWIMFILE\fR \fISPLIT_WIM_PART_1\fR \fIPART_SIZE\fR [\fIOPTION...\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Splits \fIWIMFILE\fR into parts with size at most \fIPART_SIZE\fR mebibytes,
with the first part having the name \fISPLIT_WIM_PART_1\fR and the other parts
having names numbered in order of the parts.
This command is also available as simply \fBwimsplit\fR if the appropriate
hard link or batch file has been installed.
.PP
\fBwimlib-imagex split\fR can split both non-pipable and pipable WIMs.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 6
\fB--check\fR
When reading \fIWIMFILE\fR, verify its integrity if the integrity table is
present; additionally, when writing each split WIM part, write an integrity
table.  If this option is not specified, integrity tables will be included in
the split WIMs if and only if one was present in \fIWIMFILE\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
Splits the WIM 'windows.wim' into 'windows.swm', 'windows2.swm', 'windows3.swm',
etc. where each part is at most 100 MiB:
.RS
.PP
wimlib-imagex split windows.wim windows.swm 100
.RE
.SH LIMITATIONS
It is possible for the size of the parts to exceed the \fIPART_SIZE\fR given.
This is impossible to avoid
because the WIM file format provides no way to divide a single file resource in
the WIM among multiple split WIM parts.  So if you, for example, have a file
inside the WIM that is 100 MiB, then an uncompressed split WIM will have at
least one part that is 100 MiB in size to contain that file.  However, if the
WIM resources are compressed then less space would be needed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wimlib-imagex (1)
