.TH WIMLIB-IMAGEX "1" "March 2016" "wimlib 1.9.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
wimlib-imagex-verify \- Verify a WIM file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBwimlib-imagex verify\fR \fIWIMFILE\fR [\fIOPTION\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBwimlib-imagex verify\fR checks the validity of the specified WIM archive.
This command is also available as simply \fBwimverify\fR if the appropriate hard
link or batch file has been installed.
.PP
Specifically, this command performs the following verifications on the WIM
archive:
.IP \[bu] 4
Verify that the WIM file can be successfully opened, which involves parsing the
header, blob table, and XML data.
.IP \[bu]
If the WIM archive contains an integrity table, verify the integrity of the
entire WIM archive.  Otherwise, print a warning.
.IP \[bu]
Verify that the metadata for each image in the WIM archive can be successfully
parsed.
.IP \[bu]
Verify that all files needed by each image are actually contained in the WIM
archive or in one of the WIM archives referenced by the \fB--ref\fR option.
.IP \[bu]
Verify that all files contained in the WIM archive can be successfully
decompressed, with matching cryptographic checksums.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 6
\fB--ref\fR="\fIGLOB\fR"
File glob of additional WIMs or split WIM parts to reference resources from.
This option can be specified multiple times.  Note: \fIGLOB\fR is listed in
quotes because it is interpreted by \fBwimlib-imagex\fR and may need to be
quoted to protect against shell expansion.
.TP
\fB--nocheck\fR
Do not check the WIM file's contents against its integrity table (if it has one).
.SH NOTES
This is a read-only command.  It will never modify the WIM file.
.PP
In the future, this command might do more thorough verifications than it does
now.
.SH EXAMPLES
Verify the WIM file 'boot.wim':
.RS
.PP
wimverify boot.wim
.RE
.PP
Verify the split WIM file consisting of 'boot.swm', 'boot2.swm', 'boot3.swm', ...:
.RS
.PP
wimverify boot.swm --ref="boot*.swm"
.RE
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wimlib-imagex (1)
.BR wimlib-imagex-optimize (1)
