.TH WIMLIB-IMAGEX "1" "June 2016" "wimlib 1.9.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
wimlib-imagex-apply \- Extract one image, or all images, from a WIM archive
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBwimlib-imagex apply\fR \fIWIMFILE\fR [\fIIMAGE\fR] \fITARGET\fR [\fIOPTION\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBwimlib-imagex apply\fR extracts an image, or all images, from the Windows
Imaging (WIM) file \fIWIMFILE\fR.  This command is also available as simply
\fBwimapply\fR if the appropriate hard link or batch file has been installed.
.PP
This command is designed to extract, or "apply", one or more full WIM images.
If you instead want to extract only certain files or directories contained in a
WIM image, consider using \fBwimlib-imagex extract\fR or
\fBwimlib-imagex mount\fR instead.  (\fBwimlib-imagex mount\fR is not
supported on Windows.)
.PP
\fIIMAGE\fR specifies the WIM image in \fIWIMFILE\fR to extract.  It may be a
1-based index of an image in \fIWIMFILE\fR, the name of an image in
\fIWIMFILE\fR, or the keyword "all" to indicate that all images in \fIWIMFILE\fR
are to be extracted.  Use the \fBwimlib-imagex info\fR (1) command to show
what images a WIM file contains.  \fIIMAGE\fR may be omitted if \fIWIMFILE\fR
contains only one image.
.PP
\fITARGET\fR specifies where to extract the WIM image to.  If \fITARGET\fR
specifies a directory, the WIM image is extracted to that directory (see
\fBDIRECTORY EXTRACTION (UNIX)\fR or \fBDIRECTORY EXTRACTION (WINDOWS)\fR).
Similarly, if \fITARGET\fR specifies a non-existent file, a directory is created
in that location and the WIM image is extracted to that directory.
.PP
If \fIIMAGE\fR is specified as "all", then all the images in \fIWIMFILE\fR are
actually extracted into subdirectories of \fITARGET\fR, each of which is given
the name of the corresponding image, falling back to the image index in the case
of an image with no name or a name not valid as a filename.
.PP
Alternatively, on UNIX-like systems only, if \fITARGET\fR specifies a regular
file or block device, it is interpreted as an NTFS volume to which the WIM image
is to be extracted (see \fBNTFS VOLUME EXTRACTION (UNIX)\fR).  Only a single
image can be extracted in this mode, and only extracting to the root of the NTFS
volume (not a subdirectory thereof) is supported.
.PP
\fIWIMFILE\fR may be "-" to read the WIM from standard input rather than from a
file, but see \fBPIPABLE WIMS\fR for more information.
.PP
\fBwimlib-imagex apply\fR supports applying images from stand-alone WIMs as
well as split WIMs.  See \fBSPLIT WIMS\fR.
.SH DIRECTORY EXTRACTION (UNIX)
This section documents how \fBwimlib-imagex apply\fR (and also
\fBwimlib-imagex extract\fR) extract a WIM image (or a possibly a subset
thereof, in the case of \fBwimlib-imagex extract\fR) to a directory on
UNIX-like systems.  See \fBDIRECTORY EXTRACTION (WINDOWS)\fR for the
corresponding documentation for Windows.
.PP
As mentioned, a WIM image can be applied to a directory on a UNIX-like system by
providing a \fITARGET\fR directory.  However, it is important to keep in mind
that the WIM format was designed for Windows, and as a result WIM files can
contain data or metadata that cannot be represented on UNIX-like systems.  The
main information that \fBwimlib-imagex\fR will \fInot\fR be able to extract
on UNIX-like systems is the following:
.IP \[bu] 4
Windows security descriptors (which include the file owner, group, and ACLs).
.IP \[bu]
Named data streams.
.IP \[bu]
Reparse points other than symbolic links and junction points.
.IP \[bu]
Certain file attributes such as compression, encryption, and sparseness.
.IP \[bu]
Short (DOS) names for files.
.IP \[bu]
File creation timestamps.
.PP
Notes: Unsupported data and metadata is simply not extracted, but
\fBwimlib-imagex\fR will attempt to warn you when the contents of the WIM
image can't be exactly represented when extracted.  Last access and last
modification timestamps are specified to 100 nanosecond granularity in the WIM
file, but will only be extracted to the highest precision supported by the
underlying operating system, C library, and filesystem.  Compressed files will
be extracted as uncompressed, while encrypted files will not be extracted at
all.
.SH NTFS VOLUME EXTRACTION (UNIX)
This section documents how \fBwimlib-imagex apply\fR extracts a WIM image
directly to an NTFS volume image on UNIX-like systems.
.PP
As mentioned, \fBwimlib-imagex\fR running on a UNIX-like system can apply a
WIM image directly to an NTFS volume by specifying \fITARGET\fR as a regular file
or block device containing an NTFS filesystem.  The NTFS filesystem need not be
empty, although it's expected that it be empty for the intended use cases.  A
new NTFS filesystem can be created using the \fBmkntfs\fR(8) command provided
with \fBntfs-3g\fR.
.PP
In this NTFS volume extraction mode, the WIM image is extracted to the root of
the NTFS volume in a way preserves almost all information contained in the WIM
image.  It therefore does not suffer from the limitations described in
\fBDIRECTORY EXTRACTION (UNIX)\fR.  This support relies on libntfs-3g to write
to the NTFS volume and handle NTFS-specific and Windows-specific data.
.PP
Please note that this NTFS volume extraction mode is \fInot\fR entered if
\fITARGET\fR is a directory, even if an NTFS filesystem is mounted on
\fITARGET\fR.  You must specify the NTFS volume itself (and it must be
unmounted, and you must have permission to write to it).
.PP
This NTFS volume extraction mode attempts to extract as much information as
possible, including:
.IP \[bu] 4
All data streams of all files except encrypted files, including the unnamed data
stream as well as all named data streams.
.IP \[bu]
Reparse points, including symbolic links, junction points, and other reparse
points.
.IP \[bu]
File and directory creation, access, and modification timestamps, using the
native NTFS resolution of 100 nanoseconds.
.IP \[bu]
Windows security descriptors, including all components (owner, group, DACL, and
SACL).
.IP \[bu]
DOS/Windows file attribute flags.
.IP \[bu]
All names of all files, including names in the Win32 namespace, DOS namespace,
Win32+DOS namespace, and POSIX namespace.  This includes hard links.
.IP \[bu]
Object IDs.
.PP
However, there are also several known limitations of the NTFS volume extraction
mode:
.IP \[bu] 4
Encrypted files will not be extracted.
.IP \[bu]
Sparse file attributes will not be extracted.
.PP
Regardless, since almost all information from the WIM image is restored in this
mode, it is possible (and fully supported) to restore an image of an actual
Windows installation using \fBwimlib-imagex\fR on UNIX-like systems as an
alternative to using \fBwimlib-imagex\fR on Windows.  In the examples at the end
of this manual page, there is an example of applying an image from the
"install.wim" file contained in the installation media for Windows (Vista or
later) in the "sources" directory.
.PP
Note that to actually boot Windows (Vista or later) from an applied
"install.wim" image, you also need to mark the partition as "bootable" and set
up various boot files, such as \\BOOTMGR and \\BOOT\\BCD.  The latter task is
most easily accomplished by running the "bcdboot.exe" program from a live
Windows system (such as Windows PE), but there are other options as well.
.SH DIRECTORY EXTRACTION (WINDOWS)
On Windows, \fBwimlib-imagex apply\fR and \fBwimlib-imagex extract\fR
natively support Windows-specific and NTFS-specific data.  For best results, the
target directory should be located on an NTFS volume and \fBwimlib-imagex\fR
should be run with Administrator privileges; however, non-NTFS filesystems and
running without Administrator privileges are also supported.
.PP
On Windows, \fBwimlib-imagex apply\fR and \fBwimlib-imagex extract\fR
try to extract as much data and metadata as possible, including:
.IP \[bu] 4
All data streams of all files.  This includes the default file contents, as well
as named data streams if supported by the target volume.
.IP \[bu]
Reparse points, including symbolic links, junction points, and other reparse
points, if supported by the target volume.  (Note: see \fB--rpfix\fR and
\fB--norpfix\fR for documentation on exactly how absolute symbolic links and
junctions are extracted.)  However, as per the default security settings of
Windows, it is impossible to create a symbolic link or junction point without
Administrator privileges; therefore, you must run \fBwimlib-imagex\fR as the
Administrator if you wish to fully restore an image containing symbolic links
and/or junction points.  (Otherwise, merely a warning will be issued when a
symbolic link or junction point cannot be extracted due to insufficient
privileges.)
.IP \[bu]
File and directory creation, access, and modification timestamps, to the highest
resolution supported by the target volume.
.IP \[bu]
Security descriptors, if supported by the filesystem and \fB--no-acls\fR is not
specified.  Furthermore, unless \fB--strict-acls\fR is specified, the security
descriptors for individual files or directories may be omitted or only partially
set if the user does not have permission to set them, which can be a problem if
\fBwimlib-imagex\fR is run as a non-Administrator.
.IP \[bu]
File attributes, including hidden, compressed, encrypted, etc, when supported by
the filesystem.
.IP \[bu]
DOS names (8.3) names of files; however, the failure to set them is not
considered an error condition.
.IP \[bu]
Hard links, if supported by the target filesystem.
.IP \[bu]
Object IDs, if supported by the target filesystem.
.PP
Additional notes about extracting files on Windows:
.IP \[bu] 4
\fBwimlib-imagex\fR will issue a warning when it is unable to extract the
exact metadata and data of the WIM image, for example due to features mentioned
above not being supported by the target filesystem.
.IP \[bu]
Sparse file attributes will not be extracted.
.IP \[bu]
Since encrypted files (with FILE_ATTRIBUTE_ENCRYPTED) are not stored in
plaintext in the WIM image, \fBwimlib-imagex\fR cannot restore encrypted
files to filesystems not supporting encryption.  Therefore, on such filesystems,
encrypted files will not be extracted.  Furthermore, even if encrypted
files are restored to a filesystem that supports encryption, they will only be
decryptable if the decryption key is available.
.IP \[bu]
Files with names that cannot be represented on Windows will not
be extracted by default; see \fB--include-invalid-names\fR.
.IP \[bu]
Files with full paths over 260 characters (the so-called MAX_PATH) will be
extracted, but beware that such files will be inaccessible to most Windows
software and may not be able to be deleted easily.
.IP \[bu]
On Windows, unless the \fB--no-acls\fR option is specified, wimlib will attempt
to restore files' security descriptors exactly as they are provided in the WIM
image.  Beware that typical Windows installations contain files whose security
descriptors do not allow the Administrator to delete them.  Therefore, such
files will not be able to be deleted, or in some cases even read, after
extracting, unless processed with a specialized program that knows to acquire
the SE_RESTORE_NAME and/or SE_BACKUP_NAME privileges which allow overriding
access control lists.  This is not a bug in wimlib, which works as designed to
correctly restore the data that was archived, but rather a problem with the
access rights Windows uses on certain files.  But if you just want the file data
and don't care about security descriptors, use \fB--no-acls\fR to skip restoring
all security descriptors.
.IP \[bu]
A similar caveat to the above applies to file attributes such as Readonly,
Hidden, and System.  By design, on Windows wimlib will restore such file
attributes; therefore, extracted files may have those attributes.  If this is
not what you want, use the \fB--no-attributes\fR option.
.SH SPLIT WIMS
You may use \fBwimlib-imagex apply\fR to apply images from a split WIM.  The
\fIWIMFILE\fR argument must specify the first part of the split WIM, while the
additional parts of the split WIM must be specified in one or more
\fB--ref\fR="\fIGLOB\fR" options.  Since globbing is built into the \fB--ref\fR
option, typically only one \fB--ref\fR option is necessary.  For example, the
names for the split WIM parts usually go something like:
.RS
.PP
.nf
mywim.swm
mywim2.swm
mywim3.swm
mywim4.swm
mywim5.swm
.RE
.fi
.PP
To apply the first image of this split WIM to the directory "dir", run:
.PP
.RS
wimlib-imagex apply mywim.swm 1 dir --ref="mywim*.swm"
.RE
.PP
As a special case, if you are applying an image from standard input from a split
WIM that is also pipable (as described in \fBPIPABLE WIMS\fR), the \fB--ref\fR
option is unneeded; instead you must ensure that all the split WIM parts are
concatenated together on standard input.  They can be provided in any order,
with the exception of the first part, which must be first.
.SH PIPABLE WIMS
Since wimlib v1.5.0, \fBwimlib-imagex apply\fR supports applying a WIM from a
nonseekable file, such as a pipe, provided that the WIM was captured with
\fB--pipable\fR (see \fBwimlib-imagex capture\fR(1)).  To use standard input as
the WIM, specify "-" as \fIWIMFILE\fR.  A useful use of this ability is to apply
an image from a WIM while streaming it from a server.  For example, to apply the
first image from a WIM file available on a HTTP server to an NTFS volume on
/dev/sda1, run something like:
.PP
.RS
wget -O - http://myserver/mywim.wim | wimapply - 1 /dev/sda1
.RE
.PP
(The above also used the \fBwimapply\fR abbreviation for \fBwimlib-imagex
apply\fR.) Note: WIM files are \fInot\fR pipable by default; you have to
explicitly capture them with \fB--pipable\fR, and they are \fInot\fR compatible
with Microsoft's software.  See \fBwimlib-imagex capture\fR(1) for more
information.
.PP
It is possible to apply an image from a pipable WIM split into multiple parts;
see \fBSPLIT WIMS\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 6
\fB--check\fR
When reading \fIWIMFILE\fR, verify its integrity if the integrity table is
present.
.TP
\fB--ref\fR="\fIGLOB\fR"
File glob of additional WIMs or split WIM parts to reference resources from.
See \fBSPLIT_WIMS\fR.  This option can be specified multiple times.  Note:
\fIGLOB\fR is listed in quotes because it is interpreted by
\fBwimlib-imagex\fR and may need to be quoted to protect against shell
expansion.
.TP
\fB--rpfix\fR, \fB--norpfix\fR
Set whether to fix targets of absolute symbolic links (reparse points in Windows
terminology) or not.  When enabled (\fB--rpfix\fR), extracted absolute symbolic
links that are marked in the WIM image as being fixed are assumed to have
absolute targets relative to the image root, and therefore \fBwimlib-imagex
apply\fR prepends the absolute path to the extraction target directory to their
targets.  The intention is that you can apply an image containing absolute
symbolic links and still have them be valid after it has been applied to any
location.
.IP ""
The default behavior is \fB--rpfix\fR if any images in \fIWIMFILE\fR have been
captured with reparse-point fixups done.  Otherwise, it is \fB--norpfix\fR.
.IP ""
Reparse point fixups are never done in the NTFS volume extraction mode on
UNIX-like systems.
.TP
\fB--unix-data\fR
(UNIX-like systems only)  Restore UNIX owners, groups, modes, and device IDs
(major and minor numbers) that were captured by \fBwimlib-imagex capture\fR with
the \fB--unix-data\fR option.  Since wimlib v1.7.0, you can backup and restore
not only the standard UNIX file permission information, but also character
device nodes, block device nodes, named pipes (FIFOs), and UNIX domain sockets.
.TP
\fB--no-acls\fR
Do not restore security descriptors on extracted files and directories.
.TP
\fB--strict-acls\fR
Fail immediately if the full security descriptor of any file or directory cannot
be set exactly as specified in the WIM file.  If this option is not specified,
when \fBwimlib-imagex\fR on Windows does not have permission to set a
security descriptor on an extracted file, it falls back to setting it only
partially (e.g. with SACL omitted), and in the worst case omits it entirely.
However, this should only be a problem when running \fBwimlib-imagex\fR
without Administrator rights.  Also, on UNIX-like systems, this flag can also be
combined with \fB--unix-data\fR to cause \fBwimlib-imagex\fR to fail
immediately if the UNIX owner, group, or mode on an extracted file cannot be set
for any reason.
.TP
\fB--no-attributes\fR
Do not restore Windows file attributes such as readonly, hidden, etc.
.TP
\fB--include-invalid-names\fR
Extract files and directories with invalid names by replacing characters and
appending a suffix rather than ignoring them.  Exactly what is considered an
"invalid" name is platform-dependent.
.IP ""
On POSIX-compliant systems, filenames are case-sensitive and may contain any
byte except '\\0' and \'/', so on a POSIX-compliant system this option will only
have an effect in the unlikely case that the WIM image for some reason has a
filename containing one of these characters.
.IP ""
On Windows, filenames are case-insensitive(*), cannot include the characters
'/', \'\\0', '\\', ':', '*', '?', '"', '<', '>', or '|', and cannot end with a
space or period.  Ordinarily, files in WIM images should meet these conditions
as well. However, it is not guaranteed, and in particular a WIM image captured
with \fBwimlib-imagex\fR on a POSIX-compliant system could contain such files.
By default, invalid names will be ignored, and if there are multiple names
differing only in case, one will be chosen to extract arbitrarily; however, with
\fB--include-invalid-names\fR, all names will be sanitized and extracted in some
form.
.IP ""
(*) Unless the ObCaseInsensitive setting has been set to 0 in the Windows
registry, in which case certain software, including the Windows version of
\fBwimlib-imagex\fR, will honor case-sensitive filenames on NTFS and other
compatible filesystems.
.TP
\fB--wimboot\fR
Windows only: Instead of extracting the files themselves, extract "pointer
files" back to the WIM archive(s).  This can result in significant space savings.
However, it comes at several potential costs, such as not being able to delete
the WIM archive(s) and possibly having slower access to files.  See Microsoft's
documentation for "WIMBoot" for more information.
.IP ""
If it exists, the [PrepopulateList] section of the file
\\Windows\\System32\\WimBootCompress.ini in the WIM image will be read.  Files
matching any of these patterns will be extracted normally, not as WIMBoot
"pointer files".  This is helpful for certain files that Windows needs to read
early in the boot process.
.IP ""
This option only works when the program is run as an Administrator and the
target volume is NTFS or another filesystem that supports reparse points.
.IP ""
In addition, this option works best when running on Windows 8.1 Update 1 or
later, since that is the first version of Windows that contains the Windows
Overlay Filesystem filter driver ("WOF").  If the WOF driver is detected, wimlib
will create the WIMBoot "pointer files" using documented ioctls provided by WOF.
.IP ""
Otherwise, if the WOF driver is not detected, wimlib will create the reparse
points and edit the file "\\System Volume Information\\WimOverlay.dat" on the
target volume manually.  This is potentially subject to problems, since although
the code works in certain tested cases, neither of these data formats is
actually documented by Microsoft.  Before overwriting this file, wimlib will
save the previous version in "\\System Volume
Information\\WimOverlay.wimlib_backup", which you potentially could restore if
you needed to.
.IP ""
You actually can still do a \fB--wimboot\fR extraction even if the WIM image is
not marked as "WIMBoot-compatible".  This option causes the extracted files to
be set as "externally backed" by the WIM file.  Microsoft's driver which
implements this "external backing" functionality seemingly does not care whether
the image(s) in the WIM are really marked as WIMBoot-compatible.  Therefore, the
"WIMBoot-compatible" tag (<WIMBOOT> in the XML data) seems to be a marker for
intent only.  In addition, the Microsoft driver can externally back files from
WIM files that use XPRESS chunks of size 8192, 16384, and 32768, or LZX chunks
of size 32768, in addition to the default XPRESS chunks of size 4096 that are
created when \fBwimlib-imagex capture\fR is run with the \fB--wimboot\fR
option.
.TP
\fB--compact\fR=\fIFORMAT\fR
Windows-only: compress the extracted files using System Compression, when
possible.  This only works on either Windows 10 or later, or on an older Windows
to which Microsoft's wofadk.sys driver has been added.  Several different
compression formats may be used with System Compression, and one must be
specified as \fIFORMAT\fR.  The choices are: xpress4k, xpress8k, xpress16k, and
lzx.
.IP ""
Exclusions are handled in the same way as with the \fB--wimboot\fR option.
That is: if it exists, the [PrepopulateList] section of the file
\\Windows\\System32\\WimBootCompress.ini in the WIM image will be read, and
files matching any of the patterns in this section will not be compressed.
In addition, wimlib has a hardcoded list of files for which it knows, for
compatibility with the Windows bootloader, to override the requested compression
format.
.SH NOTES
\fIData integrity\fR:  WIM files include SHA1 message digests for file data.
\fBwimlib-imagex apply\fR calculates the SHA1 message digest of every file
it extracts and issues an error if it is not equal to the SHA1 message digest
provided in the WIM.  (This default behavior seems equivalent to the
\fB/verify\fR option of ImageX.)  Note that this is separate from the integrity
table of the WIM, which provides SHA1 message digests over raw chunks of the
entire WIM file and is checked separately if the \fB--check\fR option is
specified.
.PP
\fIESD files\fR: wimlib v1.6.0 and later can extract files from version 3584
WIMs, which usually contain LZMS-compressed solid resources and may carry the
\fI.esd\fR file extension rather than \fI.wim\fR.  However, \fI.esd\fR files
downloaded directly by the Windows 8 web downloader have encrypted segments, and
wimlib cannot extract such files until they are first decrypted.
.PP
\fIDirectory traversal attacks\fR:  wimlib validates filenames before extracting
them and is not vulnerable to directory traversal attacks.  This is in contrast
to Microsoft WIMGAPI/ImageX/DISM which can overwrite arbitrary files on the
target drive when extracting a malicious WIM file containing files named
\fI..\fR or containing path separators.
.SH EXAMPLES
Extract the first image from the Windows PE image on the Windows (Vista or
later) installation media to the directory "boot":
.RS
.PP
wimlib-imagex apply /mnt/windows/sources/boot.wim 1 boot
.RE
.PP
Same as above, but using the \fBwimapply\fR abbreviation:
.RS
.PP
wimapply /media/windows/sources/boot.wim 1 boot
.RE
.PP
On Windows, apply an image of an entire volume, for example from "install.wim"
which can be found on the Windows (Vista or later) installation media:
.RS
.PP
wimlib-imagex apply install.wim 1 E:\\
.RE
.PP
Same as above, but running on a UNIX-like system where the corresponding
partition is /dev/sda2:
.RS
.PP
wimlib-imagex apply install.wim 1 /dev/sda2
.RE
.PP
Note that before running either of the above commands, an NTFS filesystem may
need to be created on the partition, for example with format.exe on Windows or
\fBmkntfs\fR(8) (part of NTFS-3G) on UNIX-like systems.  For example, you might
run:
.RS
.PP
mkntfs /dev/sda2 && wimapply install.wim 1 /dev/sda2
.RE
.PP
(Of course don't do that if you don't want to destroy all existing data on the
partition!)
.PP
An example of applying a pipable WIM from a pipe can be found in \fBPIPABLE
WIMS\fR, and an example of applying a split WIM can be found in \fBSPLIT
WIMS\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wimlib-imagex (1)
.BR wimlib-imagex-capture (1)
.BR wimlib-imagex-extract (1)
.BR wimlib-imagex-info (1)
