.TH WIMLIB-IMAGEX "1" "March 2016" "wimlib 1.9.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
wimlib-imagex-info \- Display information about a WIM file, or change information about
an image
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBwimlib-imagex info\fR \fIWIMFILE\fR [\fIIMAGE\fR [\fINEW_NAME\fR
[\fINEW_DESC\fR]]] [\fIOPTION\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBwimlib-imagex info\fR displays information about \fIWIMFILE\fR, and optionally
changes which image is bootable, or what the name and description of an image
are.
This command is also available as simply \fBwiminfo\fR if the appropriate hard
link or batch file has been installed.
.PP
If neither an image nor any flags other than \fB--check\fR are specified, some
basic information about the WIM archive as well as information about the images
contained in it will be printed.  If an image is specified by \fIIMAGE\fR (as a
1-based image index or an image name), the printed information is restricted to
that concerning the specified image.
.PP
Changes to the WIM are made if \fINEW_NAME\fR and/or \fB--boot\fR and/or
\fB--image-property\fR are specified.  \fINEW_NAME\fR is taken to be the new
name of the image specified by \fIIMAGE\fR while \fINEW_DESC\fR is taken to be
its new description.  If \fINEW_DESC\fR is not specified, the image's
description is unchanged.
.PP
\fBwimlib-imagex info\fR does not support modifying a split WIM, although you may
display information about one.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 6
\fB--boot\fR
Indicates that the specified image is to be made the bootable image of the WIM
archive.
.TP
\fB--check\fR
When reading \fIWIMFILE\fR, verify its integrity if the integrity table is
present; additionally if an action that requires modifying the WIM archive is
specified, include an integrity table in the modified WIM.  If this option is
not specified and \fIWIMFILE\fR is modified, an integrity table will be included
in the modified WIM if and only if there was one before.
.TP
\fB--nocheck\fR
If an action that requires modifying the WIM archive is specified, do not
include an integrity table in the modified WIM.  If this option is not specified
and \fIWIMFILE\fR is modified, an integrity table will be included in the
modified WIM if and only if there was one before.
.TP
\fB--extract-xml\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Extracts the raw data from the XML resource in the WIM file to \fIFILE\fR.
Note: the XML data will be encoded using UTF-16LE, and it will begin with a
byte-order mark.
.TP
\fB--header\fR
Shows detailed information from the WIM header.
.TP
\fB--blobs\fR
Prints information about all the blobs ("file data") in the WIM.  A WIM file
stores only one copy of each unique blob.
.TP
\fB--xml\fR
Prints the raw XML data from the WIM.  Note: the XML data will be encoded using
UTF-16LE, and it will begin with a byte-order mark.
.TP
\fB--image-property\fR \fINAME\fR=\fIVALUE\fR
Set an arbitrary per-image property in the XML document of the WIM file.
\fINAME\fR is an element path such as "WINDOWS/VERSION/MAJOR", and \fIVALUE\fR
is the string to place in the element, such as "10".  See the documentation for
this option to \fBwimlib-imagex capture\fR (1) for more details.  This option
may be specified multiple times.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wimlib-imagex (1)
.BR wimlib-imagex-dir (1)
