.TH WIMLIB-IMAGEX "1" "March 2016" "wimlib 1.9.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
wimlib-imagex-extract \- Extract files or directories from a WIM image
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBwimlib-imagex extract\fR \fIWIMFILE\fR \fIIMAGE\fR [(\fIPATH\fR | @\fILISTFILE\fR)...]  [\fIOPTION\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBwimlib-imagex extract\fR extracts one or more files or directory trees
from the specified \fIIMAGE\fR contained in the Windows Imaging (WIM) file
\fIWIMFILE\fR.
This command is also available as simply \fBwimextract\fR if the appropriate hard
link or batch file has been installed.
.PP
\fBwimlib-imagex extract\fR is intended for extracting only a subset of a
WIM image.  If you want to extract or "apply" a full WIM image to a directory or
NTFS volume, use \fBwimlib-imagex apply\fR (1) instead.
.PP
\fIIMAGE\fR specifies the image in \fIWIMFILE\fR that contains the files or
directory trees to extract.  It may be a 1-based index of an image in the WIM or
the name of an image in the WIM.  Use the \fBwimlib-imagex info\fR (1)
command to show what images a WIM file contains.
.PP
If no additional arguments are given, the entire WIM image is extracted.
Otherwise, each additional argument is interpreted as a \fIPATH\fR if it does
not begin with the '@' character, or a \fILISTFILE\fR if it does.  Each
\fIPATH\fR specifies a file or directory tree within the WIM image to extract,
whereas each \fILISTFILE\fR specifies a file that itself contains a list of
paths to extract.  See \fBPATHS AND LISTFILES\fR for more details.
.PP
By default, files and directories are extracted to the current directory.  Use
\fB--dest-dir\fR to select a different destination directory.  Alternatively,
use \fB--to-stdout\fR to extract a file to standard output to pipe into another
program.
.PP
A file or directory extracted from a \fIPATH\fR argument is by default extracted
directly into the destination directory, whereas a file or directory extracted
from a \fILISTFILE\fR argument is by default extracted into the destination
directory in such a way that the archive's directory structure is
preserved.  Use \fB--preserve-dir-structure\fR to always get the latter
behavior.
.PP
\fBwimlib-imagex extract\fR supports extracting files and directory trees
from stand-alone WIMs as well as split WIMs.  See \fBSPLIT WIMS\fR.
.SH PATHS AND LISTFILES
Each path, including those on the command line and those in listfiles, must be
specified as an absolute path starting from the root of the WIM image, like
those output by the \fBwimlib-imagex dir\fR (1) command.  However, path
separators may be either forward or backward slashes, and the leading slash is
optional.
.PP
On Windows, by default paths are treated case-insensitively, whereas on
UNIX-like systems, by default paths are treated case-sensitively.  In either
case, the default behavior may be overridden through the
\fBWIMLIB_IMAGEX_IGNORE_CASE\fR environmental variable, as documented in
\fBwimlib-imagex\fR (1).
.PP
By default, each path may contain the wildcard characters '?' and '*'.  The '?'
character matches any non-path-separator character, whereas the '*' character
matches zero or more non-path-separator characters.  Consequently, a single
wildcard path, or "glob", may expand to multiple actual files or directories.
Use the \fB--no-globs\fR option to disable wildcard matching and search for each
path literally.
.PP
Each \fILISTFILE\fR must be a text file (UTF-8 or UTF-16LE encoded; plain ASCII
is also fine) that
contains a list of paths to extract, one per line.  Wildcard characters are
allowed by default.  The following demonstrates an example listfile:
.PP
.RS
.nf

; This is a comment (begins with semicolon)
# This is also a comment (begins with number sign)
/Users
/Windows/explorer.exe
/Windows/System32/en-US/*

; Both forward and backslashes are valid.
; It's not necessary to quote paths containing internal spaces.
\\Program Files\\A*

; Leading and trailing whitespace is ignored
    \\Windows\\notepad*

.SH SPLIT WIMS
You may use \fBwimlib-imagex extract\fR to extract files or directory trees
from a split WIM.  This uses the \fB--refs\fR="\fIGLOB\fR" option in the same
way as in other commands such as \fBwimlib-imagex apply\fR.  See
\fBwimlib-imagex apply\fR (1) for more details.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 6
\fB--check\fR
When reading \fIWIMFILE\fR, verify its integrity if an integrity table is
present.
.TP
\fB--ref\fR="\fIGLOB\fR"
File glob of additional WIMs or split WIM parts to reference resources from.
See \fBSPLIT_WIMS\fR.  Note: \fIGLOB\fR is listed in quotes because it is
interpreted by \fBwimlib-imagex\fR and may need to be quoted to protect
against shell expansion.
.TP
\fB--dest-dir\fR=\fIDIR\fR
Extract the files and directories to the directory \fIDIR\fR instead of to the
current working directory.
.TP
\fB--to-stdout\fR
Extract the files to standard output instead of to the filesystem.  This can
only be provided if all the specified paths are to regular files (not
directories or reparse points).  If present, alternate data streams are not
extracted.
.TP
\fB--unix-data\fR
See the documentation for this option in \fBwimlib-imagex-apply\fR (1).
.TP
\fB--no-acls\fR
See the documentation for this option in \fBwimlib-imagex-apply\fR (1).
.TP
\fB--strict-acls\fR
See the documentation for this option in \fBwimlib-imagex-apply\fR (1).
.TP
\fB--no-attributes\fR
See the documentation for this option in \fBwimlib-imagex-apply\fR (1).
.TP
\fB--include-invalid-names\fR
See the documentation for this option in \fBwimlib-imagex-apply\fR (1).
.TP
\fB--no-globs\fR
Do not recognize wildcard characters in paths.  Each path will be searched for
literally.  In addition, if case insensitivity is enabled, do not allow a single
path to match multiple files with the same case-insensitive name but different
case-sensitive names.
.IP
\fB--no-wildcards\fR is also accepted as an alias for this option.
.TP
\fB--nullglob\fR
If a glob does not match any files, ignore it and print a warning instead of
failing with an error.  In other words, this option allows a glob to
successfully match zero files.
.IP
This option also affects paths that do not contain wildcard characters, since
such paths are still considered globs unless \fB--no-globs\fR is enabled.  If
case-insensitivity is enabled, such a glob could match multiple files with the
same case-insensitive name but different case-sensitive names, whereas a
non-glob path (with \fB--no-globs\fR) can match at most one file.
.TP
\fB--preserve-dir-structure\fR
When extracting paths, preserve the archive directory structure instead of
extracting the file or directory tree named by each path directly to the
destination directory.  Note: \fB--preserve-dir-structure\fR is already the
default behavior for paths in listfiles, but not paths directly specified on the
command line.
.TP
\fB--wimboot\fR
See the documentation for this option in \fBwimlib-imagex-apply\fR (1).
.TP
\fB--compact\fR=\fIFORMAT\fR
See the documentation for this option in \fBwimlib-imagex-apply\fR (1).
.SH NOTES
See the documentation \fBwimlib-imagex apply\fR (1) for documentation about
what data and metadata are extracted on UNIX-like systems versus on Windows.
.PP
On UNIX-like systems that support userspace filesystems with FUSE (e.g. Linux),
one can alternatively mount the WIM image with \fBwimlib-imagex mount\fR (1)
and then extract the desired files or directories using any standard
command-line or graphical program.
.PP
Reparse-point fixups (a.k.a. changing absolute symbolic links and junctions to
point within the extraction location) are never done by \fBwimlib-imagex
extract\fR.  Use \fBwimlib-imagex apply\fR if you want this behavior.
.PP
Unlike \fBwimlib-imagex apply\fR, \fBwimlib-imagex extract\fR does not
support extracting files directly to an NTFS volume using libntfs-3g.
.PP
wimlib v1.6.0 and later can extract files from version 3584 WIMs, which usually
contain LZMS-compressed solid resources and may carry the \fI.esd\fR file extension
rather than \fI.wim\fR.  However, \fI.esd\fR files downloaded directly by the
Windows 8 web downloader have encrypted segments, and wimlib cannot extract such
files until they are first decrypted.  Furthermore, such files are not designed
for random access, so extracting individual files from them may be slow.
.SH EXAMPLES
Extract a file from the first image in "boot.wim" to the current directory:
.RS
.PP
wimlib-imagex extract boot.wim 1 /Windows/System32/notepad.exe
.RE
.PP
Extract a file from the first image in "boot.wim" to standard output:
.RS
.PP
wimlib-imagex extract boot.wim 1 /Windows/System32/notepad.exe \\
.br
.RS
--to-stdout
.RE
.RE
.PP
Extract a file from the first image in "boot.wim" to the specified directory:
.RS
.PP
wimlib-imagex extract boot.wim 1 /Windows/System32/notepad.exe \\
.br
.RS
--dest-dir=somedir
.RE
.RE
.PP
Extract the "sources" directory from the first image in "boot.wim" to the
current directory:
.RS
.PP
wimlib-imagex extract boot.wim 1 /sources
.RE
.PP
Extract multiple files and directories in one command:
.RS
.PP
wimlib-imagex extract boot.wim 1 /Windows/Fonts \\
.br
.RS
/sources /Windows/System32/cmd.exe
.RE
.RE
.PP
Extract many files to the current directory using a wildcard pattern:
.RS
.PP
wimlib-imagex extract install.wim 1 "/Windows/Fonts/*.ttf"
.RE
.PP
Extract files using a list file:
.RS
.PP
wimlib-imagex extract install.wim 1 @files.txt
.RE
.PP
 ...  where files.txt could be something like:
.PP
.RS
.RS
.nf
Windows\\System32\\*.*
Windows\\System32\\??-??\\*.*
Windows\\System32\\en-US\\*.*
.RE
.RE
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wimlib-imagex (1)
.BR wimlib-imagex-apply (1)
.BR wimlib-imagex-dir (1)
.BR wimlib-imagex-info (1)
.BR wimlib-imagex-mount (1)
