.TH WIMSPLIT "1" "February 2024" "wimlib 1.14.4" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
wimsplit \- Split a WIM archive into multiple parts
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBwimsplit\fR \fIWIMFILE\fR \fISPLIT_WIM_PART_1\fR \fIPART_SIZE\fR [\fIOPTION...\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBwimsplit\fR, or equivalently \fBwimlib-imagex split\fR, splits \fIWIMFILE\fR
into parts with size at most \fIPART_SIZE\fR mebibytes (power-of-2 megabytes),
with the first part having the name \fISPLIT_WIM_PART_1\fR and the other parts
having names numbered in order of the parts.
.PP
\fBwimsplit\fR can split both non-pipable and pipable WIMs.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 6
\fB--check\fR
Before splitting the WIM, verify its integrity if it contains extra integrity
information.  Also include extra integrity information in each split WIM part,
even if \fIWIMFILE\fR did not contain it.
.TP
\fB--include-integrity\fR
Include extra integrity information in each split WIM part, i.e. like
\fB--check\fR but don't also verify \fIWIMFILE\fR beforehand.
.SH EXAMPLES
Splits the WIM 'windows.wim' into 'windows.swm', 'windows2.swm', 'windows3.swm',
etc. where each part is at most 100 MiB:
.RS
.PP
wimsplit windows.wim windows.swm 100
.RE
.SH LIMITATIONS
It is possible for the size of the parts to exceed the \fIPART_SIZE\fR given.
This is impossible to avoid because the WIM file format provides no way to
divide a single file resource among multiple split WIM parts.  So if you, for
example, have a file inside the WIM that is 100 MiB compressed, then the split
WIM will have at least one part that is 100 MiB in size to contain that file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wimlib-imagex (1)
.BR wimjoin (1)
