.TH WIMVERIFY "1" "February 2024" "wimlib 1.14.4" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
wimverify \- Verify a WIM archive
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBwimverify\fR \fIWIMFILE\fR [\fIOPTION\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBwimverify\fR (or equivalently \fBwimlib-imagex verify\fR) checks the validity
and integrity of the specified WIM archive.
.PP
Specifically, this command performs the following verifications on the WIM:
.IP \[bu] 4
Verify that the WIM can be successfully opened, which involves parsing the
header, blob table, and XML data.
.IP \[bu]
If the WIM contains extra integrity information, verify the integrity of the
entire WIM.
.IP \[bu]
Verify that the metadata for each image in the WIM can be successfully parsed.
.IP \[bu]
Verify that all files needed by each image are actually contained in the WIM or
in one of the WIMs referenced by the \fB--ref\fR option.
.IP \[bu]
Verify that all files contained in the WIM can be successfully decompressed,
with matching checksums.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 6
\fB--ref\fR="\fIGLOB\fR"
File glob of additional WIMs or split WIM parts to reference resources from.
This option can be specified multiple times.  Note: \fIGLOB\fR is listed in
quotes because it is interpreted by \fBwimverify\fR and may need to be quoted to
protect against shell expansion.
.TP
\fB--nocheck\fR
Do not verify the WIM's integrity using the extra integrity information (the
integrity table).
.SH NOTES
\fBwimverify\fR is a read-only operation; it does not modify the WIM file.
.PP
Even if the WIM does not contain extra integrity information (e.g. generated
with the \fB--check\fR option to \fBwimcapture\fR), \fBwimverify\fR may still be
quite useful because all file data is still checksummed.
.PP
In the future, \fBwimverify\fR might do more thorough verifications than it does
now.
.SH EXAMPLES
Verify the WIM file 'boot.wim':
.RS
.PP
wimverify boot.wim
.RE
.PP
Verify the split WIM file consisting of 'boot.swm', 'boot2.swm', 'boot3.swm', ...:
.RS
.PP
wimverify boot.swm --ref="boot*.swm"
.RE
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wimlib-imagex (1)
